---
id: Afya msafiri for-travelers/3.2 Filling Travelers Surveillance Arrival Form
title: 3.2. Filling Travelers Surveillance Arrival Form
---
The arrival form is filled by international travelers.

### Step 1
Open a web browser.

### Step 2
Type the URL [https://afyamsafiri.moh.go.tz/](https://afyamsafiri.moh.go.tz/) on your browser address bar.

### Step 3
Select language.

### Step 4
Select the “arrival” option.

### Step 5
Enter the passport number correctly in the text field and then click “search passport” to open the traveler’s surveillance form.

- Fill all fields in personal information (other names, surname, date of birth, nationality, sex).
- Fill arrival information including arrival date, point of entry, type of port, name and number of the conveyance, and seat number. Confirm seat number after boarding the conveyance. Name & number of conveyances should be the same as provided in the ticket.
- Fill the purpose of visit in the country, occupation, and duration of stay.
- Fill the contacts while in Tanzania (physical address/hotel name, region, district, phone number, and email address).
- Fill the country where the journey started.
- Enter the number of other countries visited in the last 21 days (3 weeks).
- Enter the name of the country, location, and date of visit.
- Select sign/symptom(s) experienced in the last 21 days (3 weeks) before travel if any.

When all the information has been completed accordingly, continue to finish filling the form. After completing the form, select the “submit” button to proceed or “cancel” button to cancel.

_Add screenshot of the traveler surveillance arrival form here._

### Step 6
Click “submit” to save information. If the “submit button” is not active, review the responses and ensure all the required fields marked with an asterisk sign (*) are completed.

### Step 7
Click the checkbox of the declaration statement and then click “complete” to save the information.

### Step 8
Click “close” on the completion note. A QR Code will appear to signal completion.

### Step 9
Click the National Emblem to go back to the home page.

_Add screenshot of travelers’ form completion notice and instruct “tick here”._
