---
id: Afya Msafiri for-manager/Afyamsafiri System for-managers-4.1-Accessing-afyamsafiri-application
title: Accessing afyamsafiri application
---
The Afyamsafiri system for managers is used by Port Health Officers (PHOs) to perform surveillance activities at the point of entry. They are responsible for screening all travelers who enter or leave the country. Port Health Officers record travelers' screening information, vaccination information together with the provision of certificates, and implementation reports (daily and weekly). To access the system use the following link: [https://afyamsafiri-admin.moh.go.tz](https://afyamsafiri-admin.moh.go.tz).

[Manager login screen]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture10.png)

## 4.1. Accessing Afyamsafiri Application

A Port Health Officer must have access to the system and a computing device connected to the internet. Follow these steps:

### Step 1
Open a web browser.

### Step 2
Type the URL [https://afyamsafiri.moh.go.tz/](https://afyamsafiri.moh.go.tz/) into your browser's address bar.

### Step 3
Enter your username and password.

### Step 4
Select the Afyamsafiri application from the application manager or from the search tab as shown in Figure 4.1.

### Step 5
Click the application to access Afyamsafiri's features and functionalities.

[Screen shot of Afyamsafiri application]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture11.png)

[Landing Page for manager – Replace with the arrival dashboard]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture12.png)

### List of Travelers

When you are on the arrival page, you will see today's highlights, which show the number of expected travelers, the number of primary screened travelers, the number of secondary screened travelers, the number of samples collected, and the number of tested (Figure 4.2a). When you are on the departure page, you will only see today's highlights and the list of travelers booked for screening (Figure 4.2b).

[Today's highlights on arrival and departure]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture13.png)

[Displayed list of travelers]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture14.png)

### Traveler Filtering

With filters, you will be able to easily access the desired travelers’ information. These will allow you to access travelers in groups, e.g., by nationality, or just specific information, e.g., using a passport (Figure 4.2c). Click the download button to get the list of travelers in Excel (Figure 4.2d).

[Different filters that can be used to access travelers’ information]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture15.png)

[List of travelers]
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture16.png)
