---
id: Afya Msafiri for-manager_4_2_Travelers Screening
title: 4.2 Travelers Screening
---

Select the activity to be undertaken, starting with Primary Screening, Secondary Screening, Sample Collection, and Providing Results (Figure ...).

Figure 4.2e: Screening Steps That a Traveler May Pass Through
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture17.png)

### 4.2.1. Primary Screening

This process involves physical observation and reviewing the details that were submitted by the traveler during booking.

#### Steps for Primary Screening:

- Step 1: Filter and click the traveler to be screened (refer to Section ...).
- Step 2: Verify the traveler's information and record the temperature readings by clicking the “screen now” button.
- Step 3: Make a decision—either subject the traveler to secondary screening or allow them to proceed with travel based on physical observation and the traveler's information in the system.

Figure 4.2.1: Primary Screening Process for Travelers and Decisions to Be Made
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture18.png)
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture19.png)

### 4.2.2. Secondary Screening

This process involves responding to risk exposure questions, which can be answered with Yes, No, or Unknown. Port Health Officers attending to travelers should follow the steps below:

#### Steps for Secondary Screening:

- Step 1: Filter and click the traveler to be screened (refer to Section ...).
- Step 2: Select the “screen now” option on the secondary screening card.
- Step 3: Interview the traveler and record risk exposure details in the system.
- Step 4: Make a decision—either allow the traveler to proceed with Exit/Entry formalities, allow them to proceed with Exit/Entry formalities under condition, delay travel, or deny travel based on the traveler's responses (see Figure ...).
- Step 5: Submit the information by clicking the “commit changes” button.

Figure 4.2.2a: Secondary Screening Form
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture20.png)
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture21.png)

### 4.2.3. Sample Collection

In case there is a need for sample collection, follow the steps below:

#### Steps for Sample Collection:

- Step 1:Filter and click the name of the traveler to be attended (refer to Section ...).
- Step 2: Verify payment by clicking the check payment card. If the button is disabled, verify whether the traveler has paid by checking the payment status on the check payment card. If the control number is not set, click the “resend bill” button to generate the control number and direct the traveler to pay for the service.
  
  Add screenshot.

- Step 3: Click the “collect now” option on the sample collection card.
- Step 4: Click to fill all fields in the pop-up window: date of sample collection, lab number, type of specimen, and type of test (Figure 4.2.2b).
- Step 5: Click the “commit changes” button to submit the information and proceed to provide results.

Figure 4.2.2b: Recording Sample Details
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture22.png)

### 4.2.4. Record Results and Provide Certificates

#### Steps for Recording Results and Providing Certificates:

- Step 1: Filter and click the name of the traveler to be attended (refer to Section ...).
- Step 2: Click the “record now” option on the provide result card.
- Step 3: Click to fill the test results into the system.

Figure 4.2.2c: Filling in Test Results
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture23.png)

- Step 4: Click the “commit changes” button to submit the test results.
  
  Add screenshot – commit changes.

- Step 5: Click the “Certificate” button on the right side of the screen to access the certificate.

Figure: Getting the Certificate for Test Result
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture24.png)

Figure: Certificate Generated Based on the Test Details That Were Recorded
[alt text](../../static/img/Picture25.png)

- Step 6: Click “download certificate” to save as PDF or print.
